# Comment: HHS-ONC-2025-0005-0006

**Title:** Comment from Rocha, David, HHS-ONC-2025-0005, HHS-ONC-2025-0005-0001, 2025-23896

**Commenter:** David Rocha

**Posted:** 2026-01-09T05:00:00Z

**Source:** https://www.regulations.gov/comment/HHS-ONC-2025-0005-0006

---

These comments may apply more to future rulemaking:

1.CMS payer delegated entities and CMS provider delegated entities need to move to APIs.
If these delegated entities are performing delegated functions, such as delegated:
&bull;Utilization management
&bull;Electronic prior authorizations
&bull;Care coordination
&bull;Risk adjustment
&bull;Quality
These organizations need to be held accountable to such movement to APIs and using FHIR in production.
This is hindering CMS 0057-F to move to full enforcement when such delegated entities have not moved to APIs.

45 CFR Part 156 needs to update to include delegated entity obligations for FHIR API compliance.
New FHIR profiles should be created for delegated entities:
&bull;DelegatedEntity
&bull;DelegatedRelationship
&bull;DelegatedEndpoint
If not, the value based care organizations that you requested input in the CMS RFI for the health tech ecosystem will not move to APIs at scale in record time.

2.CMS should collaborate with the Joint Commission, HL7 International, and other accrediting bodies to include auditable FHIR interoperability requirements within hospital accreditation standards.
The remaining health systems and hospitals who have not exposed live FHIR endpoints will feel the push to move to live APIs when the Joint Commission could audit them.

3.CMS and ASTP/ONC need to monitor which state public health agencies and territorial public health agencies have live FHIR endpoints in production.
For example, Flexpa has a list of the live state Medicaids with live FHIR endpoints.
As of 1-8-2026, there are 15 states with no live FHIR endpoints (unknown or unavailable) for their state Medicaids and 3 states that are still in process.

Reference:
https://www.flexpa.com/docs/network/directory
