# Comment: HHS-ONC-2025-0005-0028

**Title:** Comment from KELSO, RONDA, HHS-ONC-2025-0005, HHS-ONC-2025-0005-0001, 2025-23896

**Commenter:** RONDA KELSO

**Posted:** 2026-01-26T05:00:00Z

**Source:** https://www.regulations.gov/comment/HHS-ONC-2025-0005-0028

---

Dear ASTP representatives:
As an RN who practiced back when we had handwritten notes, one of the most important things about documentation in medical records was instruction on how to correct a medical record. The instruction was simple and very easy to spot ... a single line through the inaccurate documentation with your initials next to the changed record. The reader could see what was originally entered and the new entry simultaneously. You could also see whether or not the entry was changed at the time the entry was made or if the change was made at some later date. The instructions for that type of an entry were to write "late entry for (date and time) entered on (date and time):" followed by the change. These entries were the old school audit trail. This kept the author honest and the integrity of the record preserved. it is imperative that we continue to have medical records which when altered, deleted or addended are tracked.
As an attorney, it is extremely important to understand when an entry was made, by whom and what was said. Additionally audit trails are used to determine who views records and if not authorized to view records, can be held for privacy violations.  
Please consider these comments whne making decisions about audit trails and the purpose they serve for the safety of the patient and integrity of the record.
