# Comment: HHS-ONC-2025-0005-0027

**Title:** Comment from J Tolin Law, HHS-ONC-2025-0005, HHS-ONC-2025-0005-0001, 2025-23896

**Commenter:** J Tolin Law

**Organization:** J Tolin Law

**Posted:** 2026-01-23T05:00:00Z

**Source:** https://www.regulations.gov/comment/HHS-ONC-2025-0005-0027

---

Before becoming a lawyer, I was a critical care RT for many years long before EMR existed. Watching an anesthesiologist tear up his record and rewrite after failing to recognize a case of malignant hyperthermia, caused the death of a 23 year old pro football player.

Accurate records are essential for patients as well as any advocates for patients. Deregulation is not only a bad idea, but encourages software providers to misuse, obscure, or make any audit trails ever harder to be accurate and complete . One of the biggest EMR providers is EPIC. They have already found a way to circumvent anything harmful in the EMR's by the use of secure chat. Secure chat is a method for healthcare providers to communicate with each other and are not considered part of the medical records. When a medical record affidavit comes in stating the records are complete and accurate, it is not true or accurate with EPIC and encourages both fraud and the ability of healthcare professional's to avoid pointing fingers or being truthful as to what is happening on patients. An example of this occurred in a recent case where a surgeon refused to come in despite urging from the critical care NP, and when I asked for the secure chat communication in our legal discovery process, the discussions were enough to cause the case to get settled.

Deregulation would just encourage more behavior like this and is counter-productive to finding out the truth, whether it be a patient or an advocate. I would strongly oppose any deregulation as truth and transparency is what is needed, and the best way to get an accurate representation of what occurred.

I would also encourage regulations that require all communication made in EMR's to be made part of the record, to avoid loopholes like Secure chat.

With regards, Josh Tolin
