# Comment: HHS-ONC-2025-0005-0290

**Title:** Comment from Lorenzi, Virginia, HHS-ONC-2025-0005, HHS-ONC-2025-0005-0001, 2025-23896

**Commenter:** Virginia Lorenzi

**Posted:** 2026-03-02T05:00:00Z

**Source:** https://www.regulations.gov/comment/HHS-ONC-2025-0005-0290

---

I am commenting personally as a patient and more importantly as a family caregiver. While I see the benefit of the ability for a patient or caregiver to be able to use the threat of information blocking as a way to get compliance to a request for data, I think that very few patients or caregivers will go this route. At the point you need to make this thread, your relationship with your provider is broken and you must be very brave and willing to take the risk of upsetting your provider. Instead, the data should just be easily available, and the certification program, along with the CMS PI initiatives for hospitals and outpatient docs supports that. I do not believe that vendors or providers will continue to offer and maintain the features that are no longer certified. While FHIR is great, it is currently not available to solve existing programs, like getting structured data from your patient portal in CCDA format or pushing structured data electronically to another provider (this is often done today between vendors with CCDA and NHIN Direct). Also, notification of admission to PCPS is often done using DIRECT as well. Use of DIRECT today reduces the use of phones calls, faxes or data just not flowing This was my experience working in the field. I think that the cert removals should be replaced with attestation only or should have dates far enough out that a FHIR replacement can be in place and well adopted. As a patient and caregiver, I want the ability to ask my provider about when AI was used and to know if that is an AI that is flawed, like a recall of a car part, or to come up with my own conclusions of its use. Without the AI transparency requirements in EHRs how can I get this information? It will be much harder since my providers may very well not have it - EHR vendors could keep it in a black box. This should be part of the record I am allowed to obtain. While I appreciate AI I have a healthy skepticism to its accuracy either of the model or of its use. Plus if it is useful that is good information as well. Finally, I am disturbed by the removal of privacy and security criteria. Again, a breach is too late. I like the idea that the EHRs have these features and my providers have them turned on. In addition, I like the idea that I can get a structured accounting of disclosures and audit trails if I find that it is needed. In closing I do really really appreciate that the future FHIR forward direction includes bi-directional communication with patients. While I am sad to see the PGHD criteria go, I would prefer to see structured FHIR based Writes, the ability for patients to schedule appointments, submit advance directives, electronically request amendments to their records and track the request through to resolution, and electronically request appeals to payors. I also hope for a world where a patient can easily get truly have access to their own longitudinal record including the data they add in that they think is important and can interact with their providers, payors, registries, research, social services, and patient communities through their own personal health record.
