# Comment: HHS-ONC-2025-0005-0304

**Title:** Comment on HHS-ONC-2025-0005, HHS-ONC-2025-0005-0001, 2025-23896

**Commenter:** Anonymous Anonymous

**Posted:** 2026-03-02T05:00:00Z

**Source:** https://www.regulations.gov/comment/HHS-ONC-2025-0005-0304

---

First, I do appreciate the proposal&rsquo;s purpose of updating current regulations around health data, technology, and interoperability. The rapid AI adoption in healthcare warrants regulations that encourages healthy competitive markets while maintaining the integrity and safety of a patient&rsquo;s individual health care.
However, I implore you to revisit the proposal&rsquo;s plan for Certification Criteria for Health Information Technology. Of the current 60 criteria, 34 are being removed and 7 revised. What poses the greatest threat to the integrity and safety of health care data are:
the removal of:
&sect; 170.315(d)(1): Authentication, access control, authorization
&sect; 170.315(d)(2): Auditable events and tamper-resistance
&sect; 170.315(d)(3): Audit report(s)
&sect; 170.315(d)(4): Amendments
&sect; 170.315(d)(5): Automatic access time-out
&sect; 170.315(d)(6): Emergency access
&sect; 170.315(d)(7): End-user device encryption
&sect; 170.315(d)(8): Integrity
&sect; 170.315(d)(9): Trusted connection
&sect; 170.315(d)(12): Encrypt authentication credentials
&sect; 170.315(d)(13): Multi-factor authentication (MFA)
and the revision of:
&sect; 170.315(b)(11): Decision Support Interventions (DSI)
The ASTP/ONC justifies the removals and revisions by stating they are &ldquo;redundant&rdquo; of the HIPAA Security Rule. This argument ultimately fails to account for the functional difference between product-level certification and organizational-level compliance. By removing the 11 security criteria, the ASTP/ONC effectively shifts the technical vetting burden from a federal testing process to the health care providers/organizations This is not a net reduction in industry burden. It now becomes a massive unfunded mandate for individual health care organizations to perform manual, product-specific technical audits that were previously covered by the &ldquo;Certified Health IT&rdquo; certification.
The revision of &sect; 170.315(b)(11) will inevitably trigger a significant regression in clinical safety. Removing the &ldquo;Model Card&rdquo; deletes the 31 attributes that are required for developers to share. This would mean clinicians will no longer see how the AI was built or tested. In the eyes of health risk management, removal of the label no longer guarantees that the AI-model has been vetted. Health organizations will now inherit 100% of the risk.
This proposal ultimately shifts the burden of risk, integrity, and patient safety wholly to providers and health organizations. It correctly identifies the cost of regulation to developers but it fails to consider for the multiplied costs to the healthcare delivery system. At its core, this proposal is a systemic transfer of liability.
