# Comment: HHS-ONC-2025-0005-0168

**Title:** Comment from Healthcare Information Management and Systems Society (HIMSS), HHS-ONC-2025-0005, HHS-ONC-2025-0005-0001, 2025-23896

**Commenter:** Healthcare Information Management and Systems Society (HIMSS)

**Organization:** Healthcare Information Management and Systems Society (HIMSS)

**Posted:** 2026-02-27T05:00:00Z

**Source:** https://www.regulations.gov/comment/HHS-ONC-2025-0005-0168

---

On behalf of the Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society (HIMSS), we are pleased to provide public comments on the ASTP Health Data, Technology, and Interoperability: ASTP/ONC Deregulatory Actions To Unleash Prosperity Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (RIN 0955-AA09).

HIMSS is a global advisor, thought leader, and member-based society committed to reforming the global health ecosystem through the power of information and technology. As a mission-driven non-profit, HIMSS offers a unique depth and breadth of expertise in health innovation, public policy, workforce development, research, and analytics to advise global leaders, developers, end users, patients, and influencers on best practices in health information and technology driven by health equity. Through our innovation engine, HIMSS delivers key insights, education, and engaging events to healthcare providers, governments, and market suppliers, ensuring they have the right information at the point of decision. HIMSS serves the global health information and technology communities with focused operations across North America, Europe, the United Kingdom, the Middle East, and Asia. Our members include more than 127,000 individuals, 480 provider organizations, 470 non-profit partners, and 650 health services organizations. Our global headquarters is in Rotterdam, The Netherlands and our Americas headquarters is in Chicago, Illinois.

Please see attached comments.
