# Comment: HHS-ONC-2025-0005-0019

**Title:** Comment from Damick, David, HHS-ONC-2025-0005, HHS-ONC-2025-0005-0001, 2025-23896

**Commenter:** David Damick

**Posted:** 2026-01-20T05:00:00Z

**Source:** https://www.regulations.gov/comment/HHS-ONC-2025-0005-0019

---

ASTP committee::
With apology for not providing input earlier, I urge you to Please consider - and reconsider- the comments asking for stronger regulation which will bring clarity and transparency, rather then confusion and mistrust. There are already too many verified records of falsified records due to both human intervention and the weakly regulated integration of many LLM or "AI" programs. Ensuring the integrity and security of electronic health information is vital. The proposed rule will do nothing to improve innovation in our hospitals, but will end the ability both internally and externally to check on what is real and what just sounds real.
I repeat what we have known from the beginning of computer-centered data handling (and as other professionals have noted) that the integrity of a medical record is only as reliable as its audit trail. We must keep audit trail standards current with the use and progress of electronic medical records. Gone are the days when a provider wrote of a serious concern with a pen, and the urgency or tone could be interpreted by how large they wrote or the pressure on the pen, or perhaps an underline or punctuation. In those days, if a record was changed there existed a strong rule for all of us that one just crossed out the deleted portion, and initialed or signed it then and there. This CANNOT BE DISCARDED just because we now use computer inputs, and the security of the electronic medical record is the ONLY was this vital flow of information can work. That is the integrity of the audit trail. That is the reason that the audit trail standards were included with initial regulation, and that is the only way a physician or patient can tell what went on - or what failed to go on- in their care. Clearly, the current standard ASTM E2147-18, is outdated and insufficient and has seen so many interpretations is has lost its uniformity. I concur with those urging HHS to urgently put forward a standard that addresses directly the many new PAC or medical device inputs and uses, and clearly and explicitly regulates the recording of ANY kind of "AI" or computer intelligence analysis used. Also, ASTM standards should specify that records systems record and disclose what software programs are used in patient care or analysis of patient information. And the principles of the original intent of HIPAA- that is interoperability and portability MUST be updated and made secure. We already have EMR players attempting to "own" data and place their own contracts and profits over the purpose of electronic records for patient care and continuity. These standards are needed to address intentional fraud as well, as the security of even closed systems has been broken, continually and famously, many times. Audit trails must be transparent and comprehensive, to show who, what and when entries and adjusrments are made. And because we encourage patient trust, these must be more clearly available to patients or their families or representatives. That means we need standards to regulate (or even restrict) care-giver messaging about patients that cannot be stored or reproduced, like many of the vanishing cell phone and messaging programs used today. We are all glad to participate in the formation of proper and real standards that protect the record, yet do not inhibit innovation. Such regulations would, i strongly believe, establish central policies that new innovations must attend to before being implemented in the records systems. Not unlike safety rules for new vehicles- a manufacturer can make any vehicle they want, but to be on the public roads it needs headlights and brake lights and even brakes. Not too much to ask out of standards.
