# Comment: HHS-ONC-2025-0005-0015

**Title:** Comment from Kaplan, Ronald, HHS-ONC-2025-0005, HHS-ONC-2025-0005-0001, 2025-23896

**Commenter:** Ronald Kaplan

**Posted:** 2026-01-20T05:00:00Z

**Source:** https://www.regulations.gov/comment/HHS-ONC-2025-0005-0015

---

Dear ASTP Representatives:

I have been a surgeon for 25 years and an attorney for 25 years. In my law practice I have focused my career for patient safety and better patient care. The maintenance of the electronic record is essential to me as an attorney but to insure patient safety and maintain transparency in American healthcare. It is concerning to me that the Health Data Technology and Interoperability (HTI-5) proposed risks will harm these values by modifying certification requirements before modernizing foundational data standards.  
It is imperative that Updated Audit Trail Standards must maintain their integrity to insure that the medical record is reliable. The security of Electronic Health Information is critical to keep the record accurate, provent fraud, and prevent any attempt to alter the record at any time.  
The current standard ASTM E2147-18 is outdated and insufficient in todays modern medical setting. We need to define how the data is created, collected and preserved in a manageable, searchable and shared format to avoid patient harm, out main goal.
To prevent harm, HHS must immediately prioritize a revision of the audit trail standards to include AI capturing the activities of AI algorithms, utilized and updating of connected medical devices and to make sure that clinical recommendations are open and transparent and traceable.
Audit trails must identify the specific software used in patient care and that it must be interchangeable and allow for information sharing.
The audit trails must be transparent and demonstrate corrections, deletions, or overwrites to prevent fraud in the practice of medicine.
Patient should be able to access their own electronic health record but not have the capability to alter the record.
Furthermore it is imperative that the data be allowed to be shared but should be durable. Data retention must be clearly defined for as long as patient care, investigation, and or litigation holds are ongoing. State and federal regulations must be complied with. HHS should in no way permit "ephemeral messaging" or any destruction of data. The data must be literate and reproducible as long at it remains in use.
There must be crystal clear and shared definitions to all the involved terms such as AI, Synthetic Data, EHI, ePHI and any other programs that might develop in the future. These standards have to be established and the ability to reproduce data must be clearly established, codified and enforced before any deregulation is allowed or even considered. Unless an established framework is created, the electronic health record may be subject to fraudulent use.
We must create a medical record in all forms that is beyond reproach before we can change the rules for cerification.

Sincerely,

Ronald I. Kaplan, MD, JD
