# Comment: HHS-ONC-2025-0005-0021

**Title:** Comment from Ozak, Laura , HHS-ONC-2025-0005, HHS-ONC-2025-0005-0001, 2025-23896

**Commenter:** Laura Ozak

**Posted:** 2026-01-21T05:00:00Z

**Source:** https://www.regulations.gov/comment/HHS-ONC-2025-0005-0021

---

I am a BSN registered nurse (critical care) and lawyer. I "grew up" in health care, so to speak. My entire adult career has been centered around being a voice for patients, including many elders. Over the past 40 years I have witnessed the dramatic changes as health care has evolved to become enterprise systems that fiercely compete for patients' health care dollars. Lost in all of this is PATIENT AUTONOMY. Patients have largely lost control over their personal health information (PHI), as every day we learn of ways in which PHI data is sold and/or used for purposes other than health care delivery. This includes the "mining" of PHI by coders in large enterprises to enhance billing to Medicare and other insurers. To that end, I attach the DOJ's complaint against one such health care enterprise, Kaiser Permanente. The extent of this mining process is mind boggling. I have also witnessed attempts at manipulating health care data when bad outcomes occur. The only way to discover such manipulation is vis a vis audit trails (which can also be used to exonerate health care providers). Patients already face a laborious task to obtain and decipher audit trail information with the current standards in place. Placing further road blocks will harm patients and violate their fundamental right to control how their PHI is used. Removing existing guardrails without a superior process in place will be devastating. It will encourage fraud. HHS needs to pause and reflect on its true mission, and pause and reflect on how wholesale abrogation of current guardrails - without a superior replacement framework- will only serve to victimize and harm patients who depend upon the government for protection. Yours truly, Laura Ozak, RN, JD.
