# Comment: HHS-ONC-2025-0005-0076

**Title:** Comment from Tuttle, Craig, HHS-ONC-2025-0005, HHS-ONC-2025-0005-0001, 2025-23896

**Commenter:** Craig Tuttle

**Posted:** 2026-02-24T05:00:00Z

**Source:** https://www.regulations.gov/comment/HHS-ONC-2025-0005-0076

---

Dear ASTP representatives:

I am writing today as both a patient (consumer of health care) and as an attorney assisting patients with injury claims relating to their medical care. I am also Chair of the Ohio Patient Safety Alliance, a group of attorneys advocating for safer medical care for patients of Ohio's hospitals and medical providers.

The integrity and security of electronic health information is vital to me and my organization, so that it can promote patient safety. This is also important to me personally, as it relates to my own medical care and records.

While I support the idea of enhancing interoperability, I have significant concerns that the Health Data, Technology, and Interoperability (HTI-5) proposed rule risks undermining these values by modifying certification requirements before modernizing foundational data standards.

The integrity of a medical record is only as reliable as its audit trail, something I deal with on a daily basis as I try to help patients understand "what happened?" An updated audit trail standard is necessary to ensure the security of EHI, to verify its integrity, and to reduce billing fraud. The current standard, ASTM E2147-18, is outdated and insufficient for the modern clinical environment. Since 2018, the use and content of medical records have evolved dramatically and rapidly. If the guardrails in place are removed, or decertification is pursued, before first defining how data is created, collected, and preserved in a usable, searchable, and sharable format, we are putting patient safety at risk, and are jeopardizing the the trust that patients have in our healthcare system.

Medical records must remain a reliable source of information about medical care, and therefore, I implore HHS to prioritize a revision of the audit trail standard that includes:
--AI, Medical Device, and Messaging Integration, and which explicitly captures the activities of AI algorithms, connected medical devices, and professional messaging to ensure clinical recommendations and data creation are transparent and traceable. These professional messages regarding patient care are a critical part of the practice of medicine, and patients are entitled to these communications between providers, just as they were prior to the advent of electronic medical records.
--Software Identification and Interoperability, wherein audit trails identify the specific software used in patient care. These software programs must also be interoperable for safe functioning within facilities and for sharing information in compliance withTEFCA.
--Granular Metadata and Fraud Prevention, where standards must require the collection of precise data elements, including user roles and detailed activity logs (e.g., "copy-paste," "copy forwards," and "view-only" access). Audit trails that are transparent and reveal corrections, deletions, or overwrites are essential to prevent the fraudulent practices that cost billions of dollars annually.
--Patient Access: Even still, many patients do not have access to their EHI, despite such access being required by law. These troubling gaps in availability must be addressed, so that patients can remain informed about their healthcare.

The move toward interoperability requires that data be not only shareable but also preserved. Data retention must be well defined so that information remains available while patient care, investigation, or even litigation, is ongoing. This data must be retained to remain in compliance with state and federal regulations. I strongly urge HHS to prohibit "ephemeral messaging" or any automatic destruction of data. Data must be retained in a readable, reproducible format for as long as it remains in use, and must be available to the patient as part of the medical record.

While I agree that we must establish clear, shared definitions for terms like ePHI, EHI, Generative AI, and Synthetic Data, these standards for data preservation and the ability to reproduce data must be updated, codified, and enforced prior to any deregulation is considered. Without taking this step, this has the real potential to actually facilitate fraudulent use of electronic health records upon removal of the guardrails in place.

Audit trails are essential to billing integrity, patient trust, and legal accountability. These are not optional tools within the EMR. I ask that HHS hold off on the proposed certification changes until a modern and robust audit and preservation standard is finalized.

Thank you for your important work on this issue, and for considering the implication of the proposals.

Sincerely,
Craig S. Tuttle
