# Comment: HHS-ONC-2025-0005-0013

**Title:** Comment from Hamilton, Molly, HHS-ONC-2025-0005, HHS-ONC-2025-0005-0001, 2025-23896

**Commenter:** Molly Hamilton

**Posted:** 2026-01-20T05:00:00Z

**Source:** https://www.regulations.gov/comment/HHS-ONC-2025-0005-0013

---

Standards for data creation, collection, preservation and the ability to reproduce this data in a usable, searchable, sharable format must be updated before deregulation of certification is considered.
An updated audit trail standard is required for the security of the electronic health information, to verify its integrity, and to curtail billing fraud;
Standards must keep pace with the evolving use and content of medical records, which have changed since the last audit trail standard, i.e., since ASTM E2147-18 was published in 2018. An updated standard must address transparency in data use and creation by artificial intelligence, medical devices, and messaging. Patients still do not have access to their electronic health information, despite its access and transparency being required by law. Software used in patient care and in creating the electronic medical record must be identified in audit trails. Software must be interoperable for safe functionality within facilities providing patient care, and for sharing patient health information, in order to be in compliance with TEFCA [The Trusted Exchange Framework and Common Agreement operates in the United States as a nationwide framework for health information sharing];

Data retention must be defined so that data is available as long as patient care is ongoing, as long as investigations are ongoing, as long as a litigation hold is in place, and to be in compliance with state, federal, and institutional policies and regulations.

Audit trails are foundational&mdash;not optional&mdash;to billing integrity, patient trust, and legal accountability. Audit trails, including AI audit requirements, must be transparent, non-proprietary and must reveal corrections, deletions, copy forwards and overwrites in order to prevent the enabling, concealing, or amplifying of services which lead to billing fraud. Deregulation will not address, and may actually facilitate, the practices that allow hundreds of billions of dollars to be lost in the fraudulent use of electronic medical records.
